# UDP vs TCP 
  Vulnerabilities come in many ways shapes and forms when it comes to the user datagram protocol (UDP). One of the biggest disadvantages of UDP is that it is an unreliable and connectionless protocol. The user datagram protocol lacks a verification mechanism and end-to-end connection making it vulnerable for different distributed denial of service attacks. There is also no flow control, or congestion control, making it easy for someone to perform a UDP flood which is a form of denial of service attack. Even though there are multiple disadvantages there are still ways to mitigate and try to prevent attacks from happening.

  To combat the disadvantages you need to have a plan set up for when you are transmitting packets through UDP. To begin with, you need to make limiting the rate of internet control message protocol (ICMP) transmitting through your network. You can do this by setting up a firewall with rules that will filter out or block malicious UDP packets. If you are still getting UDP floods in your network, you might need to consider proprietary scrubbing software that offers deep packet inspection (DIP).  Between the different firewall rules and the scrubbing software, you can limit the amount of UDP packets transmitting in your network. As for the verification mechanism and end-to-end connection how to make that more of secure connection we will need to set up windowing and flow control. Flow control manages the rate of data being transmitted that way it does not overwhelm the server making it crash or congest it to the point nothing is going through. Some attacks are carried out by performing the ping command. This will go ahead and try to overwhelm the network by sending ICMP echo-request to the network. This is also another form of a denial of service attack. Some companies have a maximum packet filter meaning they can only receive many ICMP from someone until it times out. They also have it set up for no pings to be sent to them and that is a rule they have set up on the firewall. That is why if you try to ping a website you will receive an error stating the ping was unsuccessful. 

  Another reason a ping can be unsuccessful is that the network connection is down meaning it’s dead. If someone is pinging a network and they have multiple requests, and the network is congested that can also give you a problem when pinging.    Unfortunately, UDP does not offer acknowledgment of a packet and that is why some use TCP over UDP. 

  One of the main reasons TCP is often used over UDP is because of the three-way handshake which consists of SYN, SYN-ACK, and ACK. TCP stands for transmission control protocol and is used to secure the transmission between two parties. What the three-way handshake does is that it sends a request SYN to say party A and when party B receives it they send an SYN-ACK back to party A letting them know hey I got your invite. Once they both are on the same page then party A will send an ACK message back letting them know I got your answer. Companies mostly use secure shell (SSH), file transfer protocol (FTP), Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), and other secure methods that use TCP. The reason why people use UDP instead of TCP is because of speed. Most of the devices that we use on a day-to-day basis use UDP over TCP. Our phones, tablets, TVs, and other devices connected to the internet need to use UDP because it delivers the packets faster. No one wants to watch a Netflix movie and wait all day for the movie to load.

  After transmitting the data through TCP how do both parties know when the connection is terminated? There are two forms of connection release when it comes to TCP. One of the two is graceful connection release meaning that the connection is open until both parties have closed their sides of the connection. The second connection release is an abrupt release which is when the TCP entity is forced to close the connection or one party closes both directions of the data transfer. They are both forms of ways to terminate the connection. A grateful connection will go through the process of sending a FIN then an ACK FIN packet will be sent back to the sender.

  Once the sender receives what they need then ACK will be sent meaning the connection is over. In an abrupt connection release, an RST will be sent. The only time an RST will be sent is when someone who isn’t in the three-way conversation intervenes and sends an SYN segment. This is sent to prevent attacks if the connection is open, and someone is trying to intervene in the connection. If a connection is not terminated this can lead to an ARP spoofing attack.

  An ARP spoofing/poisoning attack is when an attacker intercepts the connection between Party A and Party B. They send back fake ARP packets to the sender, making it as if they were the receiver. It can get to the point that they can hijack your computer. I remember this type of attack as someone eavesdropping on my conversation. The article named Surprise ARP attack draws attention said that a hospital named H D Moore had all their internet traffic redirected to a defaced page meaning they were using a fake website to gather patients’ information. Now, this hospital has to go through the process of a MAC change theirs was highjacked. 

  The process of changing your MAC address to us by renewing your DHCP lease means it makes a new IP address for your device. Attackers will use this by creating a duplicate MAC address as yours, that way they can try and steal your information. You can check if you are a victim by checking all your MAC addresses in your network. If there is a MAC address with the same numbers, then there is something going on. Check your network you may never know what can be happening behind the scenes. 

  ## References

GeeksforGeeks. (2022, May 12). TCP connection termination. GeeksforGeeks. Retrieved March 27, 2023, from https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tcp-connection-termination/ 

Jongsma, C. (2008, June 8). Surprise Arp attack draws attention. Network World. Retrieved March 27, 2023, from https://www.networkworld.com/article/2280475/surprise-arp-attack-draws-attention.html 

Lutkevich, B. (2021, October 4). What is Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)? definition from searchnetworking. Networking. Retrieved March 27, 2023, from https://www.techtarget.com/searchnetworking/definition/TCP#:~:text=TCP%20is%20used%20for%20organizing,all%20transmitted%20data%20to%20arrive.

Okta Updated: 02/14/2023 - 11:20 Time to read: 6 , & Okta. (n.d.). ARP poisoning: Definition, Techniques, Defense & Prevention. Okta. Retrieved March 27, 2023, from https://www.okta.com/identity-101/arp-poisoning/ 

             
